The vanilla furnace is disabled! Plan accordingly.
Sleeping increases difficulty!
Start gathering gunpowder early on! It is useful when making fire charges for all of the bricks you need.
Heart containers take 30 xp levels to give you 2 extra max health, whereas having 30 xp levels gives you 6 extra max health.
Higher levels of xp past level 50 give diminishing returns on max health.
Trying to take the easy way out by dying? That might not be a good idea, as your max health will decrease!
Infernal mobs have a high chance of dropping enderpearls! Since these are enchanted they may not work in some recipes!
If something seems excessively grindy, there is probably a better way of doing it.
Annoyed by how much steel you need? There is nothing wrong with making more blast furnaces!
Getting your defense skill to level 3 so you can use a shield should be your first priority in the prologue!
Once you get to the overworld and find a good spot for a base, make a charcoal pit asap!
If an artisan recipe does not seem to be working, your tools may not have enough durability.
Excavating uses xp! Also by default the key it is bound to is <tab>.
Be careful where you put your portals. You might end up having some void fog stick to you on the other side!
Finding ores in the Midnight dimension is much easier with a night vision potion.
Cooked apples are op.
Store your xp! When using a heart container 30 levels of XP will always be consumed, rather than 30 levels' worth.
You cannot spam attacks!
The Ur-Ghast seems to be a fan of pistons if you ever find yourself needing any in the Twilight Forest.
Read the quests! They are important!
Dimensional Dungeons have lots of redstone!
Tinker's tools are not required! You can still use vanilla tools just fine.
Stone AIOTs are very cheap and versatile early game tools.
Remember to chunkload your base!
Waiting for charcoal in chapter 1 can be annoying, so don't forget to mine some coal in the Prologue!
Do you like books but don't have a place to put them? Make an akashic tome!
Don't want to get stuck in a dream dimension? Make sure to bring a spare bed to help wake yourself up!
You can crush slag into sand.
Redstone clocks and hoppers are great tools for early smeltery automation.
Don't dump all your xp into skills. Having extra xp gives you more health! There are other ways to level up your skills.
Steeleaf is op.
If hopping bonsai plants are too annoying to make, you can always craft some mechanical users.